# Digital History in Sweden

Towards the end of the 6<sup>th</sup> Digital History in Sweden conference[^1]
some of us were talking about how great it woudl be to:

1. Have a public archive of the conference.
2. Have a an overview of the different Digital History projects in Sweden.

This repository is my way to address both at once, and use them as an excuse to
learn more about JavaScript.

The site is built using the Quarto framework[^2], which is a great tool for
creating (static) websites, presentations slides, documents and more. Some
simple is used to sort and format the data about projects and JavaScript,
specifically the D3[^3] framework, to draw the visualisations and manage
interactivity.

## Methodology and Definitions

The data gathered about Digital History projects in Sweden is far from
complete, and it will probably remain incomplete. I started by adding a small
number of Digital History that I already knew about, just to have _some_ data
to work with while testing different approaches to visualising them. From there
I started going through the programmes from the previous Digital History in
Sweden conferences, and searching through the university research portals for
more Digital History projects. Since _Digital History_ was not available as a
category, so I browsed and skimmed through the lists and project descriptions
of several universities to determine which projects are likely to be counted as
_Digital History_. When I got close to listing 100 projects I turned to the
research portal of the _Swedish National Heritage Board_ to find Digital
History projects that they have financed. Though there are many more
universities and financiers left to go through, 147 entries is high enough that
it is publishable.

What counts as a digital history project? I have been trying to use a very open
definition, and aim to include:

 - Research using digital methods
 - Research about digitisation
 - Digitisation of materials
 - Mediation of history using digital means

The unit of observation is a project, irregardless of the size of the funds,
the number of participants or the number of publications.

---
[^1]: or **DH6SWE** as I like to abbreviate it.

[^2]: https://quarto.org/

[^3]: https://d3js.org/
